restriction/README.md, before:

# Scripts for testing branch restriction

This utility checks if a change affects a restricted branch, and if so, whether the commit has appropriate approval in JIRA.

## How It Works

The restriction checker:
1. **Identifies restricted branches** by scanning manifest files for branches marked as "restricted"
2. **Extracts JIRA tickets** from commit messages (e.g., `CBD-1234`, `MB-5678`)
3. **Verifies approval** by checking if tickets are linked to the release approval ticket
4. **Blocks or allows** the PR based on approval status

This prevents unauthorized changes from being merged into release branches without proper product management approval.

## Local Testing

For local testing, you want to run:

    uv run test-restriction


Run just that command for help. This will do either
restricted-manifest-check (for changes to the `manifest` project) or
restricted-branch-check (for any other changes).

## Usage Environments

### Gerrit

When running in Gerrit, the script uses environment variables set by the Gerrit trigger:
- `GERRIT_PROJECT`
- `GERRIT_BRANCH`
- `GERRIT_CHANGE_COMMIT_MESSAGE`
- `GERRIT_CHANGE_URL`
- `GERRIT_PATCHSET_NUMBER`
- `GERRIT_EVENT_TYPE`

JIRA credentials are read from `~/.ssh/cloud-jira-creds.json`.

### GitHub Actions

When running in GitHub Actions, the script uses these environment variables:

**Automatically set by GitHub/workflow:**
- `GITHUB_BASE_REF` - The target branch of the PR
- `GITHUB_REPOSITORY` - The repository name (e.g. "owner/repo")
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` - GitHub token with read access to repository
- `PR_NUMBER` - The PR number to check
- `PR_TITLE` - The PR title (used for JIRA ticket extraction)

**Must be configured as secrets:**
- `JIRA_URL` - URL of the JIRA instance
- `JIRA_USERNAME` - JIRA username
- `JIRA_API_TOKEN` - JIRA API token

## Setting Up the Workflow

To enable restriction checking on a repository:

1. **Configure JIRA secrets** at the repository or organization level:
   - `JIRA_URL` - Your JIRA instance URL
   - `JIRA_USERNAME` - Service account username
   - `JIRA_API_TOKEN` - API token for the service account

2. **Add the workflow file** `.github/workflows/restricted-branch-check.yml`:

```
name: Restricted Branch Check

on:
  pull_request_target:
    types: [opened, reopened, synchronize]

jobs:
  run-check:
    uses: couchbase/build-tools/.github/workflows/restricted-branch-check.yml@main
    with:
      pr_number: ${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}
      pr_title: ${{ github.event.pull_request.title }}
    secrets:
      JIRA_URL: ${{ secrets.JIRA_URL }}
      JIRA_USERNAME: ${{ secrets.JIRA_USERNAME }}
      JIRA_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JIRA_API_TOKEN }}
```

## Repository Organization Allowlist

This workflow can only be used by repositories in approved organizations. The current allowlist includes:
- `couchbase` - Main Couchbase repositories
- `couchbasedeps` - Couchbase dependency repositories
- `couchbaselabs` - Couchbase Labs experimental repositories

The workflow protects the **target repository** (where the PR is going) and allows contributions from **any fork**. For example:
- ✅ Fork `alice/server` → Target `couchbase/server` (allowed - target is in allowlist)
- ❌ Fork `alice/server` → Target `randomorg/server` (blocked - target not in allowlist)

## Branch Protection Setup

You must also enable branch protection rules to prevent PRs from being merged if the branch is restricted:

1. Go to repository Settings → Branches
2. Add a branch protection rule for restricted branches
3. Enable "Require status checks to pass before merging"
4. Add "Check Branch Restrictions" to required status checks
5. Enable "Restrict pushes that create files"

Commit message:

MB-67231: Refactor restriction checker, improve output
Change-Id: I1df4cc7fdca61c73de46b68dae5704521fb14843
Reviewed-on: https://review.couchbase.org/c/build-tools/+/231471
Reviewed-by: Chris Hillery <ceej@couchbase.com>
Tested-by: Blair Watt <blair.watt@couchbase.com>

restriction/README.md, after:

# Scripts for testing branch restriction

This utility checks if a change affects a restricted branch, and if so, whether the commit has appropriate approval in JIRA.

## How It Works

The restriction checker:
1. **Identifies restricted branches** by scanning manifest files for branches marked as "restricted"
2. **Extracts JIRA tickets** from commit messages (e.g., `CBD-1234`, `MB-5678`)
3. **Verifies approval** by checking if tickets are linked to the release approval ticket
4. **Blocks or allows** the PR based on approval status

This prevents unauthorized changes from being merged into release branches without proper product management approval.

## Local Testing

For local testing, you want to run:

    uv run test-restriction


Run just that command for help. This will do either
restricted-manifest-check (for changes to the `manifest` project) or
restricted-branch-check (for any other changes).

## Usage Environments

### Gerrit

When running in Gerrit, the script uses environment variables set by the Gerrit trigger:
- `GERRIT_PROJECT`
- `GERRIT_BRANCH`
- `GERRIT_CHANGE_COMMIT_MESSAGE`
- `GERRIT_CHANGE_URL`
- `GERRIT_PATCHSET_NUMBER`
- `GERRIT_EVENT_TYPE`

JIRA credentials are read from `~/.ssh/cloud-jira-creds.json`.

### GitHub Actions

When running in GitHub Actions, the script uses these environment variables:

**Automatically set by GitHub/workflow:**
- `GITHUB_BASE_REF` - The target branch of the PR
- `GITHUB_REPOSITORY` - The repository name (e.g. "owner/repo")
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` - GitHub token with read access to repository
- `PR_NUMBER` - The PR number to check
- `PR_TITLE` - The PR title (used for JIRA ticket extraction)

**Must be configured as secrets:**
- `JIRA_URL` - URL of the JIRA instance
- `JIRA_USERNAME` - JIRA username
- `JIRA_API_TOKEN` - JIRA API token

## Exit Codes

The script uses different exit codes to communicate status to the calling workflow:
- `0` - Check passed, no restrictions apply
- `5` - Legitimate branch restriction applies (PR blocked)
- `6` - Technical error occurred (e.g., JIRA authentication, network issues)

The script also writes detailed error information to `$GITHUB_OUTPUT` for consumption by the workflow.

## Error Handling

The script provides detailed error information for various failure scenarios:

- **JIRA Authentication Issues**: Detailed errors for expired tokens, invalid credentials, etc.
- **JIRA Connection Issues**: Problems with JIRA URL, network connectivity, etc.
- **Missing Tickets**: When PR title doesn't reference any JIRA tickets
- **Unapproved Tickets**: When tickets aren't linked to the appropriate release approval ticket

## Setting Up the Workflow

To enable restriction checking on a repository:

1. **Configure JIRA secrets** at the repository or organization level:
   - `JIRA_URL` - Your JIRA instance URL
   - `JIRA_USERNAME` - Service account username
   - `JIRA_API_TOKEN` - API token for the service account

2. **Add the workflow file** `.github/workflows/restricted-branch-check.yml`:

```
name: Restricted Branch Check

on:
  pull_request_target:
    types: [opened, reopened, synchronize]

jobs:
  run-check:
    uses: couchbase/build-tools/.github/workflows/restricted-branch-check.yml@main
    with:
      pr_number: ${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}
      pr_title: ${{ github.event.pull_request.title }}
    secrets:
      JIRA_URL: ${{ secrets.JIRA_URL }}
      JIRA_USERNAME: ${{ secrets.JIRA_USERNAME }}
      JIRA_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.JIRA_API_TOKEN }}
```

## Repository Organization Allowlist

For security, this workflow contains a hardcoded allowlist of approved organizations:
- `couchbase` - Main Couchbase repositories
- `couchbasedeps` - Couchbase dependency repositories
- `couchbaselabs` - Couchbase Labs experimental repositories

The organization allowlist is not configurable by workflow consumers to prevent security bypass.

The workflow protects the **target repository** (where the PR is going) and allows contributions from **any fork**. For example:
- ✅ Fork `alice/server` → Target `couchbase/server` (allowed - target is in allowlist)
- ❌ Fork `alice/server` → Target `randomorg/server` (blocked - target not in allowlist)

## Branch Protection Setup

You must also enable branch protection rules to prevent PRs from being merged if the branch is restricted:

1. Go to repository Settings → Branches
2. Add a branch protection rule for restricted branches
3. Enable "Require status checks to pass before merging"
4. Add "Check Branch Restrictions" to required status checks
5. Ensure "Enforcement Status" is active
